Overview of SDE
===============

This page is meant to be a quick introduction to the basic principles underlying
the SDE.  More details on each topic are available elsewhere.

Nature of SDE
-------------

Broadly speaking the SDE is what, in computer science, is called a framework.  A
bit more specifically, the SDE is a framework that is designed to facilitate 
development and extension of computational chemistry codes via an app system.
Under this model, all chemistry functionality is encoded inside a series of 
apps and the user is free to choose which app is called at which time.  

Python Bindings
---------------

Most functions and classes in the SDE have Python bindings.  User input and 
interactions with the SDE (aside from app development; although it is also 
possible to write apps in Python) are largely expected to take place through 
these bindings.  That said, this framework is intended for use on exascale 
machines and it is not clear that Python is compatible with said machines.  
Thus for general performance reasons, we have ensured that all of the SDE is 
written in C++ and can be used without ever invoking Python.  

Python signatures for functions within this documentation are forthcoming 
(for the most part they will be identical to their C++ brethren).

Components of the SDE
---------------------

The SDE is decomposed into 5 major components:

1. **ChemistryRuntime**: the program's API to reference data available to
   the outside world.  
  - Includes: physical constants, atomic data, basis sets, force fields, *etc.*
2. **ParallelRuntime**: contains software abstractions pertaining to how many 
   threads/processes are available, what accelerators can be employed, *etc.*
  - NYI
3. **Streams** for encapsulating the logging
4. **Cache**: a collection of results generated by apps 
  - Used for checkpointing and restart
5. **AppStore**: Manages the available apps  
